Rework initial scope and deliverables (#10)
bkhabs/diem-unified-charter: diem-unified-charter.md

   As part of this document, the working group will research, analyze and evaluate application layer serialization formats focusing on data structures that match discovery protocols used in the initial scope, such as DNS records or structured fields in DNS, as well as the respective securing mechanisms for digital emblems. The group is not required to describe object level securing mechanisms, in the case that existing protocol level securing mechanisms are sufficient, for example DNSSEC for DNS records, or TLS for well known HTTPS URLs. 

2. Architecture document containing a taxonomy, data model, and overall information flows (Informational)
   The working group will develop a high level architecture and data model but start this work only after the use case and requirements document has reached group consensus. The architecture must not assume any specific serialization formats or securing and discovery mechanisms.

3. A protocol specification describing the binding of emblems to assets (Proposed Standard or Experimental)

>    After the architecture and data model are published as an informational RFC, the working group will specify a single concrete serialization for digital emblems. This document may describe a mandatory to implement securing mechanism. If a securing mechanism is described, this document must describe at least one mandatory to implement cryptographic algorithm which is already supported by the securing mechanism. This document will be published as a proposed standard RFC, and must not assume any specific discovery mechanisms, or use cases.

Author: ```suggestion
   After the architecture and data model are finished, the working group will specify a single concrete serialization for digital emblems and emblems types for one or two of the initial use cases . This document may describe a mandatory to implement securing mechanism. If a securing mechanism is described, this document must describe at least one mandatory to implement cryptographic algorithm which is already supported by the securing mechanism. This protocol is intended for proposed standard, and must not assume any specific discovery mechanisms.
```

4. A protocol specification describing an DNS-based emblem discovery mechanism (Proposed Standard
or Experimental)

>   A proposed standard describing the use of the DNS as the initial presentation/discovery mechanism for digital emblems. This document may describe a mandatory to implement securing mechanism. This document will be published as a proposed standard RFC, and must not assume any specific serialization formats, or use cases.
> 
> 5. A specification defining emblem types and their serialization and discovery for one or two use cases (Proposed Standard or Experimental)
>    A proposed standard describing the use of the Initial Serialization and Initial Discovery Mechanism for no more than two of the emblem types described in the use cases and requirements document. This document must be published as a proposed standard RFC, and must not be adopted until after the publication of the Initial Serialization and Initial Discovery Mechanism has been requested.

Author: ```suggestion
  A proposed standard describing the use of the DNS as the initial presentation/discovery mechanism for digital emblems. This document may describe a mandatory to implement securing mechanism.
```

# Initial Scope

The working group will focus its initial work on assets that are discovered by use
of digital communication such as use of DNS or at a well-know location on a host identified

> by a hostname or IP address. These discovery mechansisms have the

Author: I removed "primary interaction" based on a comment from Roman and added DNS and hostname/IP address as example based on Orie's text. However, I don't think it needs to be restricted to these in the charter.

Author: Note that this already talks about discovery by saying "discovered by use of digital communication" therefore I think "primary interaction" was redundant. Or am I missing something?

unique challenge of the validator remaining unknown to the operator of the asset.

> Specifically the design of other discovery mechanisms, likethe use of QRCodes, NFC, or Bluetooth

Author: ```suggestion
Specifically the design of other discovery mechanisms, like the use of QRCodes, NFC, or Bluetooth
```

> Specifically the design of other discovery mechanisms, like the use of QRCodes, NFC, or Bluetooth

Author: Based on the comment by @felixlinker on PR #7:
```suggestion
Specifically the design of other discovery mechanisms using proximity-based protocols such as  QRCodes, NFC, or Bluetooth
```

is out-of-scope.

Other use cases for future consideration may also cover assets that lack this requirement
or even require separate digital discovery. The WG will ensure maximum reuse of work
for emblem representation and binding. A discovery
mechanism for the initial work will only be specified by this group after the initial emblem
binding protocol is completed (see the Deliverables section below).

The working group will coordinate with relevant working groups within the IETF and other SDOs to facilitate re-use of existing protocols and capabilities and ensure that existing standards are leveraged appropriately.
The working group will not produce any standard track generic serialization formats. The working group will not produce any standard track extensions to the DNS. The working group will not develop novel security mechanisms, cryptographic primitives, or digital signature schemes. 

# Deliverables

The DIEM WG will work on the following deliverables for the defined scope strictly in this order:

1. Use cases and requirements for the initial target scenarios (Informational)

>    Initially, the working group will develop and maintain an informational use cases and requirements document, but is not required to request publication of this document. This document moust describe at least one digital emblem suitable for indicating protection under international humanitarian law and at least one digital emblem suitable for indicating the presence of a hazard or a certification of the absence of a hazard. This work must assume any specific serialization format or discovery mechanisms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Initially, the working group will develop and maintain an informational use cases and requirements document, but is not required to request publication of this document. This document must describe at least one digital emblem suitable for indicating protection under international humanitarian law and at least one digital emblem suitable for indicating the presence of a hazard or a certification of the absence of a hazard. This work must assume any specific serialization format or discovery mechanisms.
```

   The working group will research, analyze and evaluate securing mechanisms for digital emblems. The group is not required to describe object level securing mechanisms, in the case that existing protocol level securing mechanisms are sufficient, for example DNSSEC for DNS records, or TLS for well known HTTPS URLs. This work must be completed in the use cases and requirements document.

>    The working group will research, analyze and evaluate application layer serialization formats for suitability to the initial scope. The working group will attempt to match the conventions for serializing data structures used in the discovery protocols, for example, key value strings in DNS records or structured field values in http. This work must be completed in the use cases and requirements document.

Author: ```suggestion
   Initially, the working group will develop and maintain an informational use cases and requirements document, but is not required to request publication of this document. This document must describe at least one digital emblem suitable for indicating protection under international humanitarian law and at least one digital emblem suitable for indicating the presence of a hazard or a certification of the absence of a hazard. This work must assume any specific serialization format or discovery mechanisms.
   As part of this document, the working group will research, analyze and evaluate securing mechanisms for digital emblems. The group is not required to describe object level securing mechanisms, in the case that existing protocol level securing mechanisms are sufficient, for example DNSSEC for DNS records, or TLS for well known HTTPS URLs. Further, the working group will research, analyze and evaluate application layer serialization formats for suitability to the initial scope. The working group will attempt to match the conventions for serializing data structures used in the discovery protocols, for example, key value strings in DNS records or structured field values in http. These works must be completed in the use cases and requirements document.
```
This is an attempt to shorten this text at least a bit. However, do we really need this level of detail here? Especially the sentence on conventions used in discovery protocol seems later a comment on the discovery doc then here?

Author: Actually this would be my proposal for an even shorter version:
```suggestion
   Initially, the working group will develop and maintain an informational use cases and requirements document, but is not required to request publication of this document. This document must describe at least one digital emblem suitable for indicating protection under international humanitarian law and at least one digital emblem suitable for indicating the presence of a hazard or a certification of the absence of a hazard. This work must assume any specific serialization format or discovery mechanisms.
   As part of this document, the working group will research, analyze and evaluate application layer serialization formats focusing on data structures that match discovery protocols used in the initial scope, such as DNS records or structured fields in DNS, as well as the respective securing mechanisms for digital emblems. The group is not required to describe object level securing mechanisms, in the case that existing protocol level securing mechanisms are sufficient, for example DNSSEC for DNS records, or TLS for well known HTTPS URLs. 
```

2. Architecture document containing a taxonomy, data model, and overall information flows (Informational)
   The working group will develop a high level architecture and data model but start this work only after the use case and requirements document has reached group consensus. The architecture must not assume any specific serialization formats or securing and discovery mechanisms.

3. A protocol specification describing the binding of emblems to assets (Proposed Standard or Experimental)
   After the architecture and data model are published as an informational RFC, the working group will specify a single concrete serialization for digital emblems. This document may describe a mandatory to implement securing mechanism. If a securing mechanism is described, this document must describe at least one mandatory to implement cryptographic algorithm which is already supported by the securing mechanism. This document will be published as a proposed standard RFC, and must not assume any specific discovery mechanisms, or use cases.

> 4. A protocol specification describing the emblem discovery mechanism for the initial use cases (Proposed Standard

Author: ```suggestion
4. A protocol specification describing an DNS-based emblem discovery mechanism (Proposed Standard
```

or Experimental)
  A proposed standard describing the use of the DNS as the initial presentation/discovery mechanism for digital emblems. This document may describe a mandatory to implement securing mechanism. This document will be published as a proposed standard RFC, and must not assume any specific serialization formats, or use cases.

> 5. Applicability Statement

Author: ```suggestion
5. A specification defining emblem types and their serialization and discovery for one or two use cases (Proposed Standard or Experimental)
```
